 The series opens at the Republic of Moldavia exhibit, located at the Gotham City World's Fair, the Moldavian prime minister slices into the Moldavian friendship cake and unknowingly causes it to explode, releasing a concealed riddle. At the Gotham City Police Department, Police Commissioner James Gordon (Neil Hamilton) and Chief Miles O'Hara(Stafford Repp) suspect it to the Riddler (Gorshin). They turn to Inspector Bash and all the other senior policemen, but all bow their heads for a moment of silence, they turn to a red phone ("I don't know who he is behind that mask of his, but I do know when we need him and we need him now!"). After a glimpse into the lives of Bruce Wayne (Adam West) and Dick Grayson (Burt Ward) as well as the opening credits, the riddle leads them as Batman and Robin to the Pealeart gallery where they catch the Riddler in the act of taking a cross from its proprietor, Gideon Peale, at gunpoint. They stop him with an explosive but learn to their horror that Riddler's gun was actually a lighter and the cross was his to begin with. Riddler whistles and some lawyers arrive bearing subpoenas in which the Riddler hands to Batman, who is slated to be sued for false arrest. Batman and Robin must uncover the Riddler's plot before the case comes to trial or Batman will be forced to reveal his true identity in court, completely destroying his value as a crimefighter and stunting his career forever. Batman reveals that he knew the gun Riddler had was a fake, yet pretended to arrest Riddler so as to uncover Riddler's scheme. Two hidden riddles in the legal documents lead Batman and Robin to the new "What A Way To Go-Go" discothèque. the Riddler informs his henchmen, the Mole Hill Mob, that Batman has had time to solve his clue. As the Riddler and the Mole Hill Mob make their way through an underground corridor to the discothèque, his plan is again put into action. Being a minor, Robin is too young to enter the disco (Burt Ward was 19 at the time of filming so it is implied that only 21-year-olds are allowed), so he waits outside in the Batmobile and monitors Batman on the Batscope while Batman dances the Batusi with the Riddler's assistant, Molly, Unfortunately, his orange juice had been spiked with a sleeping pill. Watching from outside, Robin attempts to help Batman, but falls victim to the Riddler's tranquilizer dart gun. Riddler tries to steal the Batmobile but accidentally triggers its antitheft rockets. He then tries to destroy the car but the flames are extinguished by its "Bat-o-stat Antifire Activator". Robin is carried away down a manhole by the Riddler and the Mole Hill Mob. Batman finds himself in no condition to pursue them and is forced to surrender his keys to the police at the most inopportune time. Meanwhile, at the Riddler's hideout, Robin is strapped to a table as the Riddler, who is surrounded by Molly and the Mole Hill Mob, attempts to operate on the unconscious boy.  Picking up from the previous night's episode in the Batcave, Batman's attempts to contact Robin are met with futility; alerted by Alfred Pennyworth about Aunt Harriet's having a fit on noticing their beds weren't slept in, Batman tells him to put her at ease by saying they're spending the night at his uncle's house. Meanwhile, the Riddler's "operation" on Robin involved only the making of a plastic surgery cast from Robin's masked face, used to make a perfect "Robin" disguise for Molly. After enticing Batman with a couple of clues, Riddler and Molly (as Robin) lead Batman on a chase outside the abandoned turtle mill at Orleans Cove before their Rolls-Royce is damaged by the Batray. The Riddler makes his escape as Molly tricks Batman into taking her into the Batcave. There, Batman spots the defect in the mask caused by the straws they gave Robin through which to breathe. An unmasked Molly, after making an unsuccessful attempt to shoot Batman, tries to escape; Batman chases her to the top of the atomic pile (used to power theBatmobile), where she lets go of Batman's hand and falls to her death. Batman rescues the true Robin, but the Riddler manages to escape to the Moldavian Pavilion, where a gathering will honor the famous Mammoth of Moldavia, which is stuffed with used, yet priceless Moldavian postage stamps. The Riddler plans to steal the mammoth, and so he drenches the pavilion with nitrous oxide, dresses in a green and pink tuxedo costume and elephant mask which conceals his gas mask, and entertains the guests with a few jokes until everyone has fallen unconscious from laughter. The Riddler and the Mole Hill mob blast a hole through the floor and make ready to steal the priceless pachyderm when Batman and Robin leap out from inside the elephant and subdue the mob; whilst The Riddler runs for the man hole and leaps into it. Batman leaps after him, and Riddler shoots at him, misses, and hits a tank of noxious oxide causing it to explode, but not before Batman takes cover. The Riddler's body was never recovered, so it was assumable he would live to plague Gotham City another day, but not if Batman and Robin can help it.   Awaiting release from prison, the Penguin, the "pompous, waddling master of fowl play", schemes to get Batman, to plan his crimes for him; his first step is to attract Batman's attention. Penguin has his henchmen Hawkeye and Sparrow distribute free umbrellas to patrons outside the House of Ali Baba Jewelery store and a local bank. The men passing them out call it a promotion, but the owners of the jewelry store and bank know that they were not hired by them. While everyone's inside with the umbrellas, they explode and start spinning and cause a distraction, however even though it was the perfect setup for Hawkeye and Sparrow to commit a robbery, no heist was pulled. When Commissioner James Gordon hears of it, he knows Penguin has returned and calls Batman and Robin in to investigate. Along with Warden Crichton, they view Penguin's security camera from prison and were able to find out little on his next crime. Batman and Robin decide pay a call on Penguin, who, under the alias K.G. Bird ("cagey bird") now operates an umbrella store. As soon as they leave, Penguin launches a monster umbrella, featuring a multicolored umbrella (complete with Oswald's hidden transmitter) attached to its handle, from his store's roof The umbrella lands in the middle of the street, and the Duo investigate. While they discover nothing special about it beyond its immense size, they do retrieve a normal sized and gaudy colored umbrella that is hanging from the giant's handle. Convinced it's a clue to Penguin's next crime, Batman and Robin take the bumbershoot back with them to theBatcave to further examine it. Unable to discover a significance of the Batbrella, Batman goes in his true identity asBruce Wayne inside the umbrella store and, while the Penguin is not looking, he plants a tiny transistor microphone (disguised as a spider) there so they can find out what he's up to. Unfortunately, Bruce apparently did not count on Cobblepot actually installing a burglar alarm in his store, and a siren goes off to alert there is a bug being placed in the room. The Penguin, Hawkeye and Sparrow immediately release a net on Bruce and, unaware of his identity but mistaking him for a spy from a rival and competing umbrella store, and knocks him out with his Penguin "gas-umbrella". He then has Hawkeye and Sparrow tie him up and toss him into the furnace. Still entangled in the net, Bruce is placed on a conveyor belt that leads to the 10,000degree furnace.  Picking up from the last episode, Bruce Wayne's burning feet revive him just in time, and he retrieves from his pocket his cigarette lighter containing a lifetime supply of butane gas, and throws it into the fire. A sudden blast ensues, eating up the oxygen, putting the furnace out, and throwing Bruce free from the net, far enough to make his escape. Later, atthe Batcave, as the Penguin and his "Finks" cleverly eavesdrop courtesy of a bug he planted on The Batbrella, Batman and Robin decide that the Penguin's scheme is kidnapping actress Dawn Robbins, who is in town at a penthouse apartment. Batman then discusses the whole scheme the Penguin must have, which the listening Penguin plans to carry out with an added detail of his own. Batman and Robin go to Dawn (who is bored from the life of a movie star and wants to experience something exciting). They notify her that they believe she is in danger, and she agrees to let them stay and stake-out the place. The Penguin, Hawkeye and Sparrow swing across to Robbins' terrace on giant umbrellas; Penguin enters through the screen door and he gasses Dawn to sleep. As Batman and Robin try to stop the Penguin, a powerful magnet the Penguin had positioned just outside is turned on and they are pulled to it because of the metal in their utility belts, immobilizing them. The Dynamic Duo can only watch as Penguins' henchmen bind gag and wrap Dawn up in a fishnet. Dragging her out to the terrace. Then spirit get away to their hideout. It is later revealed that Batman and Robin had escaped from the magnet by a room service waiter and return to police headquarters. Knowing Penguin is listening in through the umbrella's bug, they announce that the ransom will be paid at Wayne Manor and that Batman and Robin will be waiting inside the armor statues immediately inside in the entrance hall. The Penguin goes to Wayne Manor and returns the actress. He then uses his gas-umbrella to knock out anyone inside the statues. He returns to his hideout to find out that Batman and Robin were waiting there; there had been dummies inside the statues all along. The Penguin is apprehended.  The story begins with the Joker in prison pitching in (and enjoying) a ballgame. After a few pitches, the catcher switches the ball with one he has stashed in his padding, and tells the Joker "This is the one." As the batter hits the ball, a smoke cloud appears and before anyone had known what happened, the Joker magically escaped using a spring-loaded device that propelled him over the prison wall. The only thing the Joker left behind was a statue of his face and bust that was concealed under the spring contraption. Batman and Robin go to the museum to check everything out—they were suspicious the Joker would strike there in revenge because he had not been entered into The Comedy Hall of Fame. When arriving, they found out the Joker's statue was indeed there and decided he must be somewhere else. After everything's locked up, they realize that no one can break in, but that doesn't mean someone who isn't already in the building couldn't break out, which means the Joker's gang is likely already inside to begin with. Reentering the museum, they find the Joker trying to steal the valuable jewels inside, with henchmen named after comedy stars, who were hidden inside the busts. While the fight ensues, Batman is knocked out from a falling antique sword that had been hanging on the wall. As they are carrying Robin and him away, he uses a gas pellet from his utility belt. The Joker escapes out a trap door while his henchmen are gathered up. After being defeated once again by Batman's utility belt, a fed-up Joker decides to make his own. While in his hideout, the Joker comes up with an idea to steal the S.S. Gotham (from his henchwoman). He plans to eliminate Batman so he can take the ship. Bruce Wayne and Dick Grayson arrive at the commissioners office for talk on the S.S. Gotham. While there, a clown doll is thrown through the window. Bruce Wayne asks to take it for a souvenir and back at the Batcave Batman and Robin try to figure out what the Joker is up to. They come up with the idea that the Joker will be at The Gotham City Opera Company, where Pagliacci is being performed. While at theopera, Batman and Robin are caught when the Joker throws sneezing powder in their face and his henchmen grab our heroes. A horrified audience then watches the Joker make a move to unmask Batman and Robin...  The Joker is about to remove The Batman's mask, but the Caped Crusader escapes using a small Batmissle in his utility belt to set off the water sprinklers. The Joker uses a smoke bomb to make his escape. As they are chasing him on the catwalks above, The Joker uses trick streamers from his utility belt that wrap around Batman and Robin. He gets away before Batman and Robin can get themselves out of the confetti. When the Duo returns to the Batcave to attempt to divine the clown's next move, the Joker temporarily hijacks a TV studio to broadcast another riddle as to his next crime. After solving it with Alfred's help, they track the Joker to a warehouse and while in a struggle, The Joker switches Batman's utility belt with his to enable his escape in the most humiliating way possible. Batman is selected to christen the S.S. Gotham. The Joker decides to fill a champagne bottle with paralyzing gas. On the day of the christening, a crowd gathers. Joker's henchwoman hands Commissioner Gordon the bottle who in turn hands it to Batman. As Batman looks over the bottle, he notices the cork has been tampered with. After taking a pill and saying he had a headache, he hands Robin one as well and tells him to take it because it may be catching. As the bottle is broken, it releases the gas and everyone is knocked out. The Joker takes Batman and Robin back to his hideout (thinking they're knocked out) and broadcasts his ultimatum on television—either he gets the S.S. Gotham or Batman and Robin will be executed like the famous display in the wax museums. Batman and Robin spring into action having taken their Universal Drug Antidote Pill. The Joker is caught and brought to justice.  Some time ago, during a fight between Batman and Mr. Freeze, the struggle only succeeded in overturning a large beaker of ‘Instant Freeze’ onto the villain. Now forced to live inside a super-cooled house designed to keep his body temperature at fifty degrees below zero, and only able to leave with the use of a special air-conditioned suit, Mr. Freeze decides to begin a rampage of revenge. He breaks into the Gotham City Diamond Exchange to steal some famous diamonds (otherwise known as ‘ice’), but Batman and Robin, acting on a tip-off from Commissioner Gordon, arrive and attempt to stop him. However, Freeze’s henchmen, Chill, Nippy and Mo, release five Batman and Mr. Freeze decoys, and in the resulting confusion the frozen felon makes his escape. Later, back at his hideout, Freeze makes plans to steal the Ghiaccio Circolo (Circle of Ice), Diamond from the visiting Princess Sandra of Molino.  In the former episode, Dr. Schivel, (also known as Mr. Freeze) previously left Batman and Robin frozen solid. Anambulance takes them to the Gotham City Hospital, where doctors use the "Super Hypertherm De-icifier" chamber to slowly restore their body temperature to normal levels. But Mr. Freeze has escaped with Princess Sandra's rarediamond, the "Giaclio Circlo". From his frozen lair, Mr. Freeze learns of their rescue as he watches the news. A henchman enters and reports the success of "Operation: Beautiful Diamond", and Mr. Freeze commands him to bring "something" into the coldest part of the lair, where Freeze can survive without his suit and his men must keep to special "hot paths" or face death from the extreme cold. Watching further, Freeze sees Princess Sandra and Bruce Wayne throw out the first pitch at a baseballgame. At that game, the scheduled pitcher, ace Paul Diamante, has failed to appear. A Tiger Moth biplane skywritesover the stadium, "Three Strikes, you're out Batman." It is another message from Mr. Freeze and Dick reveals that Diamante means "diamond" in Spanish. Commissioner James Gordon tells Batman that three disreputable men visited Diamante earlier that day, and when his landlady entered to clean, the apartment was empty of people. She did find a note that read simply, "You will soon hear my demands" along with an icicle - clearly the work of Mr. Freeze. As the meeting continues, Freeze telephones, and informs the commissioner, Chief Miles O'Hara, and Batman and Robin of his terms: for the safe release of Paul Diamante, he demands Batman in exchange and Batman agrees to come to Mr. Freeze. Batman meets a helicopter, which drops off a chloroformed Diamante. The henchmen jump Batman and bundle him into the copter, then fly off with him. When he awakens inside Mr. Freeze's lair, he discovers that Freeze has stolen his utility belt. He promises Batman some kind of death, but whether it will be merciless or quick depends on Batman, and on how Mr. Freeze feels "when the time comes." Dr. Schimmel clearly still holds Batman responsible for the accident that left him unable to withstand temperatures above 50 degrees below zero, and his ostracism from normal society. For the second time, Batman attempts to subdue Mr. Freeze, and twice he fails, overcome by the subzero temperatures in the cold zone which Mr. Freeze is perfectly comfortable. Finally, Mr. Freeze guides Batman along a hot path into a dining room, where Batman discovers that the villain has captured Robin, who followed Batman to the lair. Mr. Freeze serves them a warm dinner of roast beef and spinach, with baked Alaska for dessert. He even offers a cordial after the meal, but of course Batman does not touch a drop of alcohol. Batman pleads with Mr. Freeze to turn himself to get medical attention for condition, but Freeze refuses to believe that would be possible in prison and admits that he will have to murder Robin as well since the boy knows his whereabouts. Following the meal, Mr. Freeze attends to that by reducing the hot zone to a tiny area, his goal to freeze Batman and Robin, slowly in revenge for his skin condition. When he leaves room for only one person, Batman orders Robin to remain inside and then suddenly knocks Mr. Freeze to the ground. Batman took the precaution of wearing his "Special Super B Thermal underwear" as protection. His previous failures to subdue Dr. Schimmel were simply feints, to throw him off guard. Seizing his control box, Robin quickly warms the entire room and Mr. Freeze begins to suffocate from the heat. Robin creates a small zone of cold to contain Freeze safely, and then Freeze's henchmen appear. They threaten them with handguns, but a quick exposure to Mr. Freeze's preferred temperature convinces them to drop the weapons while a quick shift back to heat cuts short Freeze's interference. With the goons safely disarmed, Batman and Robin subdue them with fisticuffs before the police finally arrive to storm the hideout. Later, Bruce Wayne hosts a reception for the rescued Paul Diamante, and for Princess Sandra, whose rare diamond has been returned to her. But Dick Grayson is not interested for the event's dessert course: Baked Alaska.  For the third consecutive April Fools' Day, someone has robbed the Gotham City National Bank of exactly $100,000, passing up the chance to take other money worth nearly a half million dollars from the same vault. In two years, theGotham Police Department has gotten nowhere with the case, leading Chief Miles O'Hara and Commissioner Gordonto call in the one man who can solve the mystery: Batman. Batman and Robin have no leads, so he determines the right course of action is to manufacture a lead. He phones the Gotham paper and plants a story that the cash taken from the Gotham City National Bank was counterfeit, held there until authorities could destroy it. He hopes to force the criminal to strike again. Meanwhile, he analyzes a bullet found at the scene and discovers from it that the thief was wearing orange wool and dozens of colorful silk scarves. From a smear of ambergris he concludes that the criminal was a woman. Meanwhile, in the secret workshop of Eivol Ekdol, behind the Gnome Bookstore, Eivol's client Zelda the Great meets with him. Each year she purchases, for $100,000, a new trick to re-invigorate her fading act. ("Oh, I hate robbing banks." she complains "All I ever wanted to be was poor, but honest magician.") This year, Ekdol has prepared a clever escape proof cabinet, but when Zelda asks how to escape it, he informs her that she won't even get into it unless she can produce $100,000 in real money. He shows her a newspaper article reporting that the Star of Sammarkand, a rareemerald, will be displayed. It is a tempting target and Zelda realizes this is a "Batman trap". At Wayne Manor, Aunt Harriet Cooper receives a phone call from Miss Smith, a playground matron. It seems her fifteen-year-old nephew Dick Grayson has been struck in the head by a baseball and she has sent a special taxi to collect Mrs. Cooper and drive her to the playground. At the jewelry salon, an elderly woman approaches the Star, and with a quick tap of her cane, releases a cloud of gas. It is Zelda in disguise and she has escaped with the Star. Fortunately, the stone is a counterfeit, and equipped with a homing device. Batman contacts Officer Clancy nearby and asks him to uncover theBatmobile. But outside, Robin finds the false stone in a gutter. Zelda's appearance here was a ruse. Then Batman receives a threatening phone call. It seems someone has kidnapped Aunt Harriet and demanded $100,000 for her safe release. And as Commissioner Gordon continues, no one can find Bruce Wayne. It then shows Aunt Harriet at Zelda's hide out encased in a straitjacket suspended over a vat of boiling oil.  From the previous episode, Zelda has kidnapped Aunt Harriet from Wayne Manor and demanded $100,000 for hersafe return. Bruce Wayne must contact her within an hour, but the police cannot find the millionaire (because he is currently Batman) Batman tells Commissioner James Gordon that he'll track Wayne down, and with just over half the hour remaining, Wayne reaches police headquarters. There he learns that Zelda has demanded he contact her by television. He and the police race to a nearby studio, where their broadcast interrupts regular programming. Bruce Wayne, Commissioner Gordon, and Robin appear on the air, and offer a telephone number for the criminal to call, promising it will not be traced. Wayne reveals that the counterfeit story was a ruse and that the criminal has real money. Robin appeals to whatever decency she has left, imploring her to release Aunt Harriet from her being suspended over a tub of flaming oil. Zelda agrees to release her prisoner. With police help, Aunt Harriet returns to Wayne Manor. Alfred Pennyworth feels guilty, since he was below dusting the Batcave when Harriet received the false telephone summons, but Wayne advises his loyal servant to rid himself of guilt, for the kidnapping has enabled him to deduce the criminal's identity. This declaration surprises Robin, who does not understand how Batman deduced this. Alfred also contributes a clue: a matchbook from the Gnome Bookstore that fell from Aunt Harriet's pocket. En route to the bookstore, Batman encourages Robin to recall Aunt Harriet's predicament, and after putting two and two together, Robin realizes who the criminal is: The suspended over flaming oil escape was Zelda's signature trick when Bruce Wayne took Dick Grayson to see Zelda on Dick's last birthday. At the Gnome Bookstore, Eivol Ekdol reveals to Zelda that there is no escape from his trick. He plans to lure Batman into the trick so he will show him how to escape it. When Zelda questions how she can use the trick if Batman understands it, Ekdol tells her: "Dead men tell no tales!" He has hired two syndicate contract killers to assassinate Batman after he escapes the trick. Although highly reticent to commit murder, Zelda has anticipated Ekdol's strategy: she planted the book of matches Alfred found to lure the Dynamic Duo to the bookshop, the trick, and their deaths. He hides the killers and the villains wait. The bookstore is closed, but the door is unlocked. Batman and Robin enter, and quickly discover a note that leads them to a slim volume titled, "The Truth About Bats." Removing it from the shelf opens a concealed door into Eivol Ekdol's workshop and his "Inescapable Doom Trap". A fake bat inside leads the duo into the trap. Its space age plastic resists the tools from their utility belts, deadly gas begins to pour in, and the floor vent is electrified. But the gas rises; Robin realizes it must contain hydrogen. Using their metal belt buckles, the Duo creates a spark and the exploding gas bursts apart the trap. As they're about to pass between the mummies, inside where the machine gun equipped gangsters lurk, Zelda warns them. They duck and the gangsters kill each other with crossfire. Ekdol tries to escape, but Batman knocks him out with a Batarang. A tearful Zelda surrenders, truly remorseful. While Ekdol is taken into custody, Zelda is granted her reprieve.  The Riddler returns to disrupt the welcome ceremony for visiting King Boris, who has arrived in Gotham City to present a gift from his country: a miniature replica of the Queen of Freedom Monument. Together with his henchwoman, Mousey, the Riddler presents the King with a bouquet of flowers, which promptly explodes and releases a hidden riddle. Believing the Count of Conundrums to be planning to steal the jewelled crown from the ‘Miss Galaxy Contest’, Batman replaces the headpiece with a fake that contains a miniature transmitter. But when the Dynamic Duo apprehend the Riddler as he steals the crown from the contest, he tells them that he knew it to be a phoney, and throws it at them while making his escape. Batman finds another riddle in the crown that suggests the Riddler is going to kidnap King Boris - but when he and Robin arrive, they are too late to prevent the King’s capture!  While The Riddler and his henchmen escort King Boris and his booby-trapped statue back to Gotham,Batman and Robin manage to free themselves from the giant generator that threatens to spin them to death. Believing his foes to be dead, the Riddler places the statue and his explosive content inside the museum, and then informs Commissioner Gordon that he will destroy the Queen of Freedom Monument unless he receives the sum of one million dollars. Then, one of the Riddler's henchmen, Whitey, disguises himself as Batman and pays a visit to Commissioner Gordon's office and Bruce Wayne…  Jervis Tetch AKA The Mad Hatter, sets out to take revenge against The Batman and the 12 members of the jury that convicted him and sent him to prison. Using The Super Instant Mesmerizer concealed in his top hat, he begins stealing hats of the jurors--along with their owners! After collecting most of the jury, Tetch decides it's time to add Batman's cowl -- his "thirteenth" hat, he calls it -- so he sets a trap for The Caped Crusader and Robin The Boy Wonder at the studio of sculptor Octave Marbot, who is currently sculpting a statue of Batman.Masquerading as Marbot, Tetch tries luring The Dynamic Duo into removing his cowl so he can use it as a model for the statue's head. Knowing full well that Marbot has finished the head already, The Batman sees through The Mad Hatter's disguise, and, pretending to fall for his deception, The Dynamic Duo retire to the back room to remove The Batman's cowl in secret. There they find the real Marbot bound and gagged in the closet, and burst out to confront The Mad Hatter. During the battle that ensues, Tetch tries his Super Instant Mesmerizer on Batman, but the latter counterattacks with his Antimesmeriszing Batreflector; unfortunately, The Hatter dodges and Robin, standing behind him, is hit by the deflecting ray. Rushing to his aid, Batman is knocked asunder by Jervis Tetch, who manages to entomb The Caped Crusader in Super-Fast Hardening Plaster!  After several minutes, Jervis Tetch is convinced that The Batman has smothered to death inside the plaster, and he has the real Marbot break it open in order to obtain a mold of The Caped Crusader's cowl. As Marbot slowly chips away at the plaster shroud, they hear someone chipping away from the inside! Lo and behold, Batman - who wisely held his Batbreath - emerges from the plaster, and The Mad Hatter and his cronies Cappy and Dicer make a hasty retreat. They try to utilize The Batmobile as a getaway car, but they unknowingly trigger its Antitheft Device strategically set up by The Dynamic Duo (there have been a rash of recent car thefts in the area). Learning that The Hatter has only one more juror to capture, Turkey Bullwinkle, owner of the Bowl-O-Drome bowling alley, Batman arranges for Alfred to plant a Homing Battransmitter in Bullwinkle's bowler, hoping that it will lead them to The Mad Hatter's hideaway.Later that night, at The Bowl-O-Drome, Alf succeeds in planting the device moments before The Hatter and his assistant, Lisa - posing as a reporter for Male Mode, a magazine devoted to men's fashion - swipe his hat. Unfortunately, as Bullwinkle confronts The Mad Hatter, they drop the hat, unwittingly exposing the Battransmitter. Jervis Tetch sees this as a golden opportunity to lure The Batman into a trap, and subsequently uses his Super Mesmerizer on Turkey Bullwinkle and makes off with his 12th and final juror and his bowler. The Mad Hatter deliberately leads The Darknight Duo directly to his digs, where he hopes to use his ghastly machinery of his homicidal hat factory to dispose of them. They do fall into The Hatter's trap, but manages to overpower their vengeful adversary, eventually sending him plummeting into a vat of shrinking solution. Bruce and Dick later buy a hat for Aunt Harriet on her birthday at Madame Magda's.  The Joker has tied Batman and Robin / Dick Grayson to two electric chairs connected to a one-armed bandit - if machine spins three Liberty Bells, the Dynamic Duo are free with $50,000; if the machine spins three oranges they just get free, but it the machine spins three lemons, the Dynamic Duo will be electrocuted with 50,000 volts of electricty! However, a blackout stops the current, enabling the police to arrive in time to free the heroes before the power is restored. After listening to a secret audio-recording they made, Batman and Robin discover that Susie is a member of the Joker's Bad Pennies gang; the Boy Wonder goes undercover as Dick Grayson in an attempt to trick Susie into leading him into the villains’ hideout, but Nick sees through his ruse, and sends him off after mentioning an impending robbery at a local bar. When the Dynamic Duo arrive at the bar they come under fire from the shotgun-wielding jukebox, but disable it with the aid of a Batshield and Batbomb. Realising that Susie is in danger they immediately rush to her aid; meanwhile, the Joker instructs the girl to plant answers to important Nationwide Pre-College Exam papers inside one of the rigged machines, and then gives her some perfume - which contains a deadly poison that will kill her as soon as she sprays it on. The Caped Crusaders catch up with Suzie at Woodrow Roosevelt High and try to warn her that Joker is onto her and that her life is in danger. Suzie ignores their pleas, opens the bottle of poisoned perfume, squirts some onto herself, and immediately falls into the arms of the Dynamic Duo, unconscious. Later that night at Joker's headquarters, gang member Two-Bit informs Joker and Nick that he saw Suzie being driven away in a meat wagon, with the Boy Wonder crying inconsolably. Joker and his two minions are momentarily saddened by Suzie's demise, but Joker returns to form by giving Nick a memorial cigar in honor of the departed cheerleader, which turns out to be a trick exploding stogie. Joker then places a large bet in Las Vegas for Disco Tech to win! Their sprits lifted, the three rush out of Joker's hideout and head to the Woodrow Roosevelt gym, where their scheme will come to a climax. At the gym, the starting five for Woodrow Roosevelt's basketball team are finishing their warmups for that night's game against rival Disco Tech. The five know about Suzie's fate and are determined to beat Disco handily as a tribute to her. Walking out of the gym on their way to the locker room, the team captain notices that the out-of-order sign on the vending machine near the gym entrance is gone. One of them deposits a coin, and, instead of milk, out drops a bundle of papers. They look over the sheets and soon realize that they contain the answers to the upcoming Nationwide Pre-College Exams. At that moment, a camera flashes, and the team looks up to see Joker, Nick, and Two-Bit standing in front of the bleachers. Two-Bit has just snapped them holding the incriminating evidence. Joker and the Bad Pennies play dumb, pretending that they just happened to be on school property, which they support with their taxes. With the team disqualified a secord rate team will take their place and Disco Tech will win! The Dynamic Duo show up and turn the tables on Joker..Suize isnt dead thanks to Batman and in return tells of Joker's blackmail scheme...so the Dynamic Duo switiched the real answears for fakes! The Dynamic Duo knock out the Bad Pennies; with his scheme reunied Joker tries to escape but is bonked out by Batman's baterrang. Suize is seen at Wayne Manor before going off to a Wayne Foundation home for deliquent Girls.  The wily master of disguise, False-Face, steals The Mergenberg Crown by masquerading as the Queen's escort, and replaces it with a false one right under the watchful eyes of the police. Included with the paste crown is an obscure clue revealing to Batman and Robin that False-Face's next crime will be the hijacking of an armored car. They catch him red-handed at the Gotham City Bank, but he escapes in his Trick-Truck. The Dynamic Duo spirit False Face to an alley, where his flunkies give battle. The police arrive in time to apprehend the gang, but False-Face disguises himself as Police Chief O'Hara and escapes.Suspecting a counterfeit money scheme is in the works, The Caped Crusader and The Boy Wonder rush to the bank note printer's office and capture False-Face's slinky assistant, Blaze, who is attempting to make off with a load of money paper. At Police Headquarters Blaze is interrogated, with the fake O'Hara taking part. She is torn between infatuation with Batman and her loyalty to False-Face, but finally she agrees to lead the Caped Crusader to the criminal's hideout...but it's a ruse! False-Face, disguised as a gumball machine, gasses Batman while Blaze clonks Robin over the head. The Dynamic Duo are glued to the subway rail tracks by a super-strong epoxy, as a train hurtles toward them and will momentarily trisect them!  As the train barrels towards our heroes, Alfred hears a strange transmission on the radio that alerts him to the Dynamic Duo's peril. He contacts Batman who requests that Alfred throw the short-circuit lever of thhe Battransmitter, causing Batman's radio to blow up and melt the epoxy on his wrist. He uses his free hand to reach The Batlaser in his utility belt, which he uses to melt away the remaining epoxy and free himself and Robin just as the train passes through the station and by our heroes! Batman and Robin return to Gordon's office at Police HQ and deduce that False-Face will attempt a bank robbery in which real money will be replaced with his own fake bills, so that the only money that will be any good will be False-Face's ill-gotten gains. (After all, who would think of telling the real tender from the fake?)The two heroes secret themselves in the bank vault, surprising the villains. False-Face and Blaze escape in the disguised Trick-Truck but are pursued by The Dynamic Duo to Bioscope Movie Studios. False-Face, discovering Blaze's crush on Batman (she was the one who sent the radio message earlier), holds her hostage and lots of mayhem ensues in and around the matchstick movie sets. False-Face blows up Batman's clever inflatable Batmobile as the chase through the movie sets continues, ending with False-Face disguising himself as a cowboy to slug it out with Batman. One last diversionary smoke screen and out pops a fake Commissioner Gordon. Batman sees through the disguise and rips off this last false face, and takes the protean criminal off to jail. Blaze reforms and goes off to become a shepherdess with her brother.  Catwoman uses her claws to steal a golden idol from a glass case. Catwoman steals one of a pair of Mark Andrews' priceless Golden Cat statuettes from a Gotham museum, knowing that it holds a secret to the lost treasure of Captain Manx. Batman and Robin rush off to safeguard the other statue, coating it with golden radioactive mist and then lying in wait for Catwoman to appear. However, the nefarious feline and her two henchmen, Felix and Leo, manage to drug the Boy Wonder, and in the subsequent battle they manage to escape with the second statue. After Robin comes to, he and Batman use the radioactive mist to track Catwoman to her lair at the Gato and Chat Fur Company warehouse; but when they arrive, the Dynamic Duo fall through a trap door and straight into Catwoman's clutches - and are immediately subjected to a host of deadly and devious distractions…a toy bomb that has a "meow" flag; moving spiked walls that have rubber spikes; a vacuum tube that makes Robin "fly" up...and lastly a deadly challenge before Batman..one door leads to Catwoman and other door leads to her pet "Tiger"! Will Batman choose the right door...???  Batman manages to evade the tiger Catwoman has set loose on him long enough to get out his own Batclaws from his utility belt and climb up the wall, taking him out of the big cat’s reach. Plugging his ears with a pair of earplugs he then subdues the tiger with super-amplified sounds from his Batcommunicator, allowing him to make his escape and begin the search for Robin, who has been separated from him. Meanwhile, Catwoman has balanced Robin on the end of a board, and is releasing sand onto the other end to make the Boy Wonder sink slowly into a pit of hungry tigers. The felonious feline then leaves to search for Captain Manx's treasure, having created a map by joining the two Golden Cat statues together and then drawing the outline. After Batman arrives in time to save Robin, the two crime fighters overpower all of Catwoman’s henchmen except for Leo, who escapes to rejoin his boss. Back at the Batcave, the Dynamic Duo use the Golden Cats to determine where the treasure is buried; but when they arrive at McElroy Point in the Batmobile, they soon find themselves facing Catwoman's deadly minefield…  Attending a matinee performance at a Gotham City theatre, The Penguin foils a thief’s attempts to steal a ruby from the beautiful actress Sophia Starr. Then, at the Millionaire's Club, he stops two crooks from kidnapping millionaire Reggie Rich from a steam room. When Batman and Robin arrive, the Felonious Fowl announces his Penguin Protection Agency, which will protect the wealth of Gotham City's society crowd. The Dynamic Duo are immediately suspicious, believing this to be a plot to steal Sophia Starr's jewels, which Penguin has been hired to protect; they send Alfred Pennyworth, in the guise of an insurance company agent, to photograph the jewellery and switch Penguin's cigarette holder for one with a hidden microphone; however, a bug detector located in the handle of the Penguin's umbrella spoils Alfred’s ruse, and he only just manages to escape with the photos. After using the pictures to create fake jewels, the Caped Crusader and the Boy Wonder break into Sophia’s apartment in order to swap them with the real jewels, but they are caught red-handed by the Penguin and his Agents and charged with burglary....!  Picking up from the last episode Batman and Robin avoid Commissioner Gordon and Chief O'Hara’s bullets by deflecting them with the bullet-proof soles of their boots; in the confusion, Batman cuts himself and his adoptive son free using his Batknife, and they make their escape. Furious and humiliated that the Dynamic Duo have escaped from his trap, the Penguin persuades his new society friends to make Commissioner Gordon rally a manhunt. The Dynamic Duo arrive at the Penguin Protection Agency, pretending to be insane and about to tear Penguin and his henchmen, Eagle-Eye and Dove, to pieces. A fight breaks out, but then the police arrive and pursue the two crime fighters out of the building and into the street; the chase ends in a shootout in a nearby alley, in which Batman and Robin are apparently killed. The Penguin is unaware that this is merely a ruse, as it is later revealed that Batman had arranged for the policemen’s guns to be loaded with blanks; the Penguin and his henchmen steal the Batmobile and then speed off to plan their master plan, involving the Penguin’s marriage to Sophia Starr and the theft of his own wedding gifts. To that end, The Penguin and his minions create a disturbance at the wedding, and then secretly dump all the wedding gifts into the Batmobile's trunk in the confusion. Making his escape with the excuse of pursuing the thieves, the Penguin is unaware that the Dynamic Duo is observing him through the Batmobile's internal surveillance equipment and follow him in the Batcycle. Using his remote control of the Batmobile, Batman ejects Penguin's henchmen for capture and then takes over the car's navigation to maneuver it back to them to take care of the Penguin as well. Afterward, Sophia Starr comes to police headquarters and vows to marry and reform the Penguin. The Penguin is brought in and upon learning of Starr's intentions, he furiously rejects her and demands to be returned to his cell.  The Joker commits a series of seemingly senseless crimes: he steals a hairpin from one of the rich patrons of a fur salon, then makes off with a hole from a golf course. Purplexed, Commissioner Gordon calls in Batman and Robin to help, just as an inflatable Jack-in-the-Box is delivered to his office; realising the object was sent by the Joker, Batman deduces that the Clown Prince of Crime is planning to steal the visiting Maharajah of Nimpah’s solid gold golf clubs. The Dynamic Duo rush off to the golf course, but just as the Maharajah hits his ball into the hole a cloud of sleeping gas spews out of it and renders everyone unconscious. The Joker's henchmen kidnap the hefty Maharajah using a forklift truck and then drive off with him in their van; the Caped Crusader gives chase in the Batmobile, but then loses his quarry when the van apparently vanishes into thin air. Batman and Robin later find the Joker's hideout. Joker's henchmen catch them off guard and tied them up while the Joker sings a little rhyme. Joker than has them put in a poisonous gas chamber.  By pressing their backs together, Batman and Robin are able to inch their way up to the top of the chimney in which the Joker has imprisoned them. Back at the Batcave, the Dynamic Duo analyse the gas used in the Maharajah of Nimpah’s kidnapping, and determine that it can only be obtained from the Ferguson Novelty and Magician's Supply Company. Visiting the novelty company as Bruce Wayne and Richard Grayson, they confirm that it is the Joker’s hideout, and that the Maharajah is being held there. Changing into their costumes, the Dynamic Duo burst in and overpower several of the Joker's henchmen, but the Clown Prince himself manages to escape with the Maharajah in his clutches; he then telephones Commissioner Gordon and Batman and demands a $500,000 ransom, insists that the Caped Crusader make the arrangements, and be present when the Maharajah cashes the cheque, and also endorse the cheque in his name at the Gotham City State Bank the next morning - an act that will irreparably damage the crimefighter’s reputation as a result. The Caped Crusader is forced to agree, but he knows the Maharajah’s secret…  Just as the gurney is about to plummet over the cliff, Bruce Wayne frees himself from the straps and grabs onto a guardrail, halting his impending doom. Donning his Batman outfit, he then appears on television and announces that he has saved Bruce Wayne's life and is now heading off to Egypt to conduct research. Tut sends his henchmen to Wayne Manor to carry out a second kidnapping attempt, but with the aid of a lifelike replica of his alter ego, Batman tricks the Tutlings into taking him to Tut’s hideout; however, while en route in the Royal Barque, he is discovered and knocked out. Later, at Tut’s hideout, the mad king subjects the Caped Crusader and his out-of-favour ex-queen, Nefertiti, to an ancient Theban pebble torture, in which the victim is driven mad by stones dropped onto their foreheads. At the Batcave, Robin and Alfred work out that Tut's base is an abandoned Egyptian Exhibition Pavilion; they set off in pursuit, although Alfred has to drive the Batmobile because the Boy Wonder is under-age. Meanwhile, Tut, now believing that the Pebble Torture has unhinged the minds of his captives, orders Nefertiti and Batman to perform a mad dance to wild "Bat-music"…  By staging a fake assassination attempt on Commissioner Gordon during the dedication ceremony of the new Amergio Bridge, the villainous Bookworm lures Batman and Robin to Police Headquarters; meanwhile, his moll, Lydia Limpet, plants a book-bomb in the Batmobile. Discovering that Gordon is in fact alive, Batman is alerted to the threat by the Batmobile Bomb Detector, and manages to use the vehicle’s Radiocontrolled Ejector Button to propel the device into the air where it explodes harmlessly. Finding a literary clue in the book-bomb's cover, the Dynamic Duo deduce that the bookish crook is planning to blow up the new bridge. However, the term "blow-up" is a photographic one, as the Bookworm merely projects a huge image of the bridge onto a warehouse wall; Batman and his trusty chum trace the image to a giant projector mounted on top of a nearby bookmobile, and promptly engage the Bookworm and his henchmen, Printer's Devil, Typesetter, and Pressman, in a fight But the villains escape, leaving behind a bound and gagged Lydia inside the bookmobile; our two heroes are suspicious, and so knock out the gorgeous gal with Batgas and then take her back to the Batcave, where they use the Hypermetric Lie-Detector to try and discover the literary loon’s plot. However, the clues that Lydia gives them are lies, setting the scene for Bookworm’s deadly trap…  Recalling one of Lydia's cryptic remarks ("He strikes at midnight," she said) Batman divines the meaning, and, with Chief O'Hara (whom he met on the way), races to Big Benjamin to attempt to stop the clock and save Robin before it's too late. O'Hara fails to shoot out the clockworks, and, with but a minute to spare until 12 midnight, The Caped Crusader uses The Batzooka to shoot a line to the lightning rod on top of the clock tower and the second to the clock's hands; he then connects the ends of both lines to The Batmobile's nuclear power source into the positive terminal, in hopes of positively charging the clapper and the bell and thus repel each other! Just as Benjamin's clapper is about to strike, Batman's plan is successful, and Robin is saved. After the rescue, The Peerless Pair repair to The Batcave, where they research their foe's methods. Simultaneously, Bookworm is upstairs in Wayne Manor pilfering a rare alchemical text from Bruce's library; he then arranges for a giant-sized cookbook (the name of it is called The Delight Of Cooking by Suzan Barrie) to appear in the middle of 5th and Cedar streets in downtown Gotham. The Dynamic Duo race to the scene, open the book with a super-powered magnet from The Batmobile (actually, Bookworm and Lydia opened it, with a remote control), enter the book, find a small kitchen inside, and soon find themselves trapped inside the armor-plated book as scalding hot steam is pumped in!!Bookworm and Lydia see this as a chance to swipe The Batmobile, and they drive it to the rear of The Morganbilt Library, where he plans to use its Batbeam, to break into The Library and snatch all of the rare and priceless books stored within. As Chief O'Hara, Commissioner Gordon, and a group of Gotham's Finest attempt to open the giant cookbook, The Caped Crusader contacts Alfred at The Batcave and, with his help, locates the manhole under the book which Bookworm introduced his murderous steampipe! It is here that The Dynamic Duo make their escape, just as the police finally blast open the book to find it empty, and deduce The Duo had been consumed by the steam. Meanwhile, a very much un-steamed Batman and Robin pick up The Bookworm's conversation in The Batmobile by way of a concealed microphone; it's then relayed to them via an automatic feedback circuit in their Batcave, and they head for The Morganbilt Library, where they eventually subdue The Pernicious Plagiarist and his bookish crew at the library, saving Gotham City yet again. Bookworm and Lydia are taken to Police HQ for Bruce Wayne and Dick Grayson to see in person before being hauled off to the pokey.  After escaping from the frenzied party Batman returns to the Batmobile, only to find that Robin is missing; two riddles are suddenly fired from the vehicle's Antitheft Rocket chambers, which lead the Caped Crusader to the Gotham Lumberyard. Here the Riddler is filming a death scene involving the Boy Wonder and a deadly buzzsaw; but the Prince of Puzzles, dressed in classic black top hat, cape and moustache, immediately attacks Batman with a bullwhip, and then makes his escape along with his cronies while the Caped Crusader makes to rescue Robin - and then discovers that he has been duped by a dummy dressed as his trusty chum. Batman captures Pauline and takes her to the Batcave, along with Commissioner Gordon, who insists on accompanying them to ensure that the Caped Crusader does not use any unlawful methods of interrogation. Having ensured the secret of his lair’s location with the aid of knock-out Batgas, Batman elicits two more riddles from Pauline. These lead him to the top of the Chessman Building, where the Riddler and his felonious film-crew are filming a sequence in which Robin is about to be pushed off a high ledge to plummet to his death on the street below…  As The Dynamic Duo speeds back to The Batcave, Batman suspects foul play because of a comment made by the trustee dealing with The Batmobile's speed, and he immediately stops the car and disables the car-bomb just before it can go off! Quick as a blink, The Peerless Pair speed back to the prison to check on The Parkers. However, clever playacting convinces them that all is well there. Ma then holds a meeting of the prison inmates and informs them of her plan for using The Gotham State Pen as a hideout while Batman & Robin do their work by send more crooks to fatten her jailhouse gang. (After all, who'd think to looking for escaped crooks inside a prison?) During an armed car robbery, Ma detonates the druck with dynamite, the resulting explosion triggering The Batseismograph, which in turn alerts The Dynamic Duo. They rush to the scene, where under a shower of cash, Ma Parker and her delinquent kids cut out--but her plan goes awry when Batman siezes a scrap of cloth from a fleeing thief and recognizes it as prison garb! Suspecting Ma Parker is involved, Batman and Robin break into the prison, only to be captured and strapped into electric chairs by Ma's gang, scheduled to be barbecued at midnight! When Ma pulls the switch to fry The Duo, she and her cohorts find that Batman (having lured Legs into leaving the room beforehand) has cleverly managed to rewire the whole setup, using it to signal Alfred to cause a prisonwide blackout instead of an execution! The Caped Crusader and The Boy Wonder immediately free themselves and recapture The Parker Family to restore order in Gotham State Penitentiary. Later, in Warden Crichton's office, Gordon, Robin, Crichton and Batman are surprised at a bundle of roses sent to Ma Parker from her children; the reason: it's Mother's Day! Everyone laughs.  However, everyone’s staring at Bruce and Egghead, so nobody notices Dick messing with the electricity, causing the machine to go boom. Only a tiny bit of information trickled into Egghead’s brain, but it was all useless trivia—Egghead finds it inconceivable that someone with that much useless info in his head could be Batman (Bruce managed to compartmentalize his thoughts so that was all Egghead got). He fends off the millionaires with a “radar egg” that will explode at the slightest vibration—and then he rolls it across the floor. Right. But it covers his and his henchmen’s escape. Besides, it’s almost midnight, so the lease will egg-spire. There’s an incredibly convenient pipe running across the top of the room, which enables the foursome to get out of the bomb’s range. Bruce uses his skills as the former junior marble champion of Gotham City (because of course he was) to set off the bomb so no innocent bystander will accidentally trigger it, then they pootle off to the ceremony. Sadly, they’re three minutes late. Screaming Chicken now owns Gotham and all its suburbs. Not only that, he’s followed through on his deal with Egghead, so the villain now runs the jernt. He fires Gordon and Mayor Linseed and has Batman and Robin egg-spelled from the city. Felonies are no longer felonies in Gotham, with Egghead instructing the cops to ignore his people committing such crimes, but to punish misdemeanors, resulting in tons of tickets given out for jaywalking, littering, and not fastening seatbelts. Since Batman and Robin have been banned from the city, it’s up to Bruce and Dick to save the day. Figuring that there must be some fine print that everyone overlooked, he also steals the charter from City Hall (apparently it’s okay when good guys break the law). However, Egghead was egg-specting that, and has a personal alarm go off when the charter is stolen. He sends the cops to City Hall where O’Hara is following his orders to find Batman and Robin and shoot them on sight. However, he just sees Bruce and Dick and lets them go on their merry way. They bring the charter back to the Batcave, and sure enough, there is fine print. Yes, if they miss the raccoon payment, ownership of the city reverts to the Mohicans, however Mochians cannot then turn around and lease the city to anyone with a criminal record. They deduce that Egghead will go after the city treasury now that he’s in charge, so they head there. Meanwhile, Egghead and his minions are already there, reveling in their newfound—and tax egg-zempt!—cash. Batman and Robin show up at Gordon’s office, where Gordon is packing his things, and Linseed is pacing miserably. Linseed informs them that Egghead has put a $50,000 bounty on Batman’s head. Batman tells them about the loophole, and so Gordon informs the police over the radio that they don’t have to take any more of Egghead’s guff. (That is exactly how he phrases it!) The Caped Crusaders arrive to find that Egghead has already cleaned out the treasury. However, they do find that they left Screaming Chicken behind. According to the chief, Egghead’s plan is to take the money and run to Venezuela. (No word on whether or not he’s also changing his name to “Matilda.”) Robin alerts Gordon to guard all possible ways of leaving Gotham City, then he and Batman head back to the Batcave, where we find out that somehow, off-camera, the citizenry of Gotham City has forgiven Screaming Chicken. Batman figures that Egghead will be stocking upon AAA eggs, which is what his diet consists exclusively of, before his trip to Venezuela. The only egg farm big enough to satiate him would be Old MacDonald’s Chicken Ranch, and so they head there, to find that Egghead is, in fact, stealing Old MacDonald’s eggs. Fisticuffs ensue—and also a good deal of egg-tossing, because why the heck not? Our heroes win, of course. The visiting criminals who were taking advantage of Egghead’s reign have all been captured by the police, and Gotham Returns to Normal!  Aunt Harriet is rehearsing for the Annual Wayne Foundation Benefit, at which she’ll be singing. She’s accompanied by Chandell, the famous pianist, and they’ll be playing some Scottish tunes. Their rehearsal is interrupted by three women in tartan miniskirts who talk with comedy Scottish accents and play bagpipes. They’re able to render Chandell and Alfred unconscious and stun Harriet enough so that they can steal her earrings. They then raid Wayne Manor. Harriet calls the police. She’s distraught, and wonders what Bruce and Dick will think when they come back—turns out Bruce is out hunting with the Millionaire’s Club, and Dick is on a school holiday. Gordon has the GCPD switchboard put him through to the Bat-phone. A nervous Alfred heads to the library to reluctantly tell Gordon that Batman is taking one of his infrequent vacations. Gordon and O’Hara are devastated, as this means they’ll actually have to do their jobs!!!!!!!! Gordon and O’Hara question Chandell, and assure him that they will protect his concert at Gotham Town Hall. However, Chandell is actually the criminal responsible for the robbery at Wayne Manor, as we see him meeting with the three women who robbed Wayne Manor, Doe, Rae, and Mimi. That he was a victim puts him above reproach. But it turns out that Chandell isn’t a criminal willingly—he’s being blackmailed by his cigar-chomping twin brother Harry. During a performance at the White House—the one that put Chandell on the map—the pianist used a music roll to “play” the piano while he mimed it, as he’d hurt a finger before the gig. Chandell has a plan to buy off Harry and get himself out of his yoke. At Gotham Town Hall, it’s pretty much a police state, with machine guns, barbed wire, and fingerprinting at the door. Gordon won’t let anything happen to Chandell’s concert, even if he has do mow down innocent civilians to do it! Out in the forest, Bruce is listening to the concert on the radio, and he detects a wrong note—which is extremely unlikely from the fingers of the great Chandell. He calls Dick, interrupting a date with a girl, and they agree to meet at Wayne Manor. While the concert is going on, the Burma Import Company is robbed by Doe, Rae, and Mimi, this time dressed in bellydancing outfits. At the same time, Chandell is playing a Burmese number—the same pattern as the Wayne Manor robbery. Bruce and Dick return home to get a report from Alfred. (Harriet stayed behind to visit with Chandell. Dick gets a bit worried about his aunt’s virtue, but Bruce assures him that Harriet is a woman of strong character. The levels on which this exchange, which includes a mention of Chandell’s reputation as a ladies man, is hilariously absurd are legion.) Doe, Rae, and Mimi, still doing the bellydance thing, show up at Wayne Manor, on Chandell’s instructions, but disappear just as quickly. The Dynamic Duo call Gordon to assure him that they’re back, which relieves Gordon no end, and Gordon tells Chandell, who’s less happy about it. But he puts on a brave face as he shares a root beer with Harriet. Once Harriet leaves, Chandell rolls his eyes and then goes to call Harry to give him the bad news that Batman and Robin are back in town. He has a plan, though, and tells Harry to wake up his piano movers. Batman and Robin arrive at Town Hall just as Harriet is getting into a cab. Chandell hits himself over the head with the root beer bottle just before the Dynamic Duo enter. (How he knows that our heroes will be coming along just at this moment remains unclear.) They wake Chandell with smelling salts, at which point the pianist gives his brother up, sending the heroes to an abandoned player-piano factory. They leave him behind with his cranial trauma untreated and head to the factory, where they find Doe, Rae, and Mimi still doing their bellydance thing. Batman thinks they’re the victims of criminal hypnotism, but before they can try to interrogate them, Harry’s piano movers show up and fisticuffs ensue. The fight ends when Harry drops a music roll on their heads. Harry puts them on the conveyor belt to the paper cutting machine, and they’re fed into it, to be cut to pieces as the machine re-creates the music that Harry plays over the PA system.  As a player piano feeds the musical notes to the music roll machine via a microphone, The Caped Crusader mentally visualizes the chords which will make the cutting devices to puncture the outlines of their bodies. The Dynamic Duo save themselves by outshouting the piano with bad Bat-singing. Batman and Robin quickly apprehend Harry and his pack of Piano Movers and take them to Police HQ, where they reveal that a master criminal named Fingers is the ringleader...only to have Harry sprung from the hoosegow by his criminal attorney, Alfred Slye. Convinced that Chandell and Fingers are one and the same, and deducing his plan to do away with Bruce and Dick and marry up with Aunt Harriet, The Dynamic Duo form a trap for The Precarious Pianist. They arrange for their own deaths by faking an explosion in the darkroom set up in the front hall. Immediately upon learning that Chandell, after marrying Aunt Harriet, is going straight and abandon them, Harry and Doe, Rae, and Mimi decide to take matters into their own hands. The girls put Chandell to sleep with their bewitching bagpipes. Mr. Slye shows up and informs Harry that he won't be able to claim The Wayne Fortune until the will is settled in 11 years...and then presents his client with a staggering $100,000 bill, payable by midnight, or he will be brought back to jail. Believing Slye's fees are too high, Harry orders his beauties to work him over with their bagpipes, too. Chandell and Slye are then tied to the conveyor belt leading into the same music roll machine which failed to do in The Dynamic Duo earlier. Masquerading as Chandell, Harry pays a visit on Harriet, who immediately spots him for a phony and tries to take him by citizen's arrest at gunpoint ("As they say in the movies, 'stick up your mitts!'!"), but is overcome, along with Alfred, by the spellbinding sound of the girls' bagpipes. Harry transports the two in a packing case and sprays it with machine-gunfire, only to watch in shock as The Dynamic Duo, protected by The Batshield, leap out and capture the gang, and rescue Chandell and Slye from the monstrous music roll machine. Harriet receives a medal by The GCPD for bravery; then is saddened to learn that Chandell is going on a 20-year "world tour" (behind bars, with Doe, Rae, Mimi, and evil twin Harry!)  To the confusion of everyone, that black bird of prey, The Penguin, campaigns for the office of Mayor Of Gotham City! He endears himself to Gothamites by preventing a robbery, saving a baby in a runaway carriage, and donating $100,000 to a city charity! Gallus, C.F. Rooper and E.G. Trendek arrive with the latest polls, which show massive support for Penguin, and The Batman sees that the only way to clip this conniving bird's wings is to run for mayor himself. While The Caped Crusader launces a rather tasteful, low-profile campaign, The Penguin proceeds in the opposite direction, going all out in overshadowing Batman with loud bands, a belly dancer, pretty girls, and free champagne! Later, when Batman and robin sre scheduled to appear before the Grand Order Of Occidental Nighthawks (G-O-O-N!), they wind up confronting Penguin's G.O.O.N's, instead. The Dynamic Duo are quicky overpowered, bound and tied, and finally suspended on one side of a giant scale (emulating The Scales Of Justice!) over a scalding vat of sulphuric acid! The other side of the scale is filled with blocks of ice suspended over a giant heater; as the ice melts, The Duo comes closer and closer to the acid bath!  Batman and Robin are alerted when Mooney, a policewoman working undercover as a member of The Catwoman's mob, warns Gordon that Catwoman is planning to join forces with a European criminal known as The Sandman for committing a crime. Catwoman discovers her on the phone with Gordon. She snatches the receiver from her and sprays Mooney with knockout gas. Her henchmen bind and gag the disguised policewoman. They cover her head with a black nylon hood. She has them drag Mooney away to be dealt with later. Catwoman picks up Mooney's heels after they fall off her bound pantyhosed feet as she's dragged away. Later, Catwoman pretending to fall asleep on a mattress display in a store window is spirited away by one of Sandman's cronies and later turns up on a TV newscast, where she cleverly advertises the talents of a sleep expert names Dr. Somnambula, a.k.a. Sandman, in hopes of gaining the attention of J. Pauline Spaghetti, a rich insomniac. Sandman's scheme is a success, and he is summoned to Spaghetti's penthouse; there, while examining her eyes, he gasses her asleep. Working fast, he snaps photos of J. Pauline's financial ledger just as The Dynamic Duo arrive to rescue her from the man they--but not J. Pauline!--believe to be The Sandman. While Spaghetti proves to them that she wasn't in danger, Sandman escapes. The Caped Crusader and The Boy Wonder later trace The Sandman to his GHQ at the abandoned Morpheus Mattress Factory on Derwin Alley. Upon entering the deserted factory, they are quickly seized by Sandman and his henchmen Snooze and Nap. The Batman is bound to a mattress under a giant button stitcher, while Robin is ordered to push the button which activates the machine. The Sandman decides to give Robin to Catwoman as a present and splits.  The Feline-ious Felon agrees to release The Batman from the trap only if he agrees to join her gang, and, having little alternative, The Caped Crusader acquiesces, but he slips himself a Universal Batantidote before he is scratched with Cataphrenic, allowing him to keep his reason. Pretending to be under The Catwoman's spell, Batman accompanies the gang to The Old Criminals' Home to visit "Little Al," from whom Catwoman hopes to buy the plans to the GC Mint. Batman phones an anonymous tip to the police informing them where they can capture Robin and Pussycat. Knowing that The Boy Wonder is now safe, Batman sets a trap for Catwoman, who convinces him to take her back to The Batcave. While in The Batcave, Batman diverts a phone line instigated by the police trying to trace him to the cave, leading the cops right to the place of inventor Pet Pending, whom they arrest. After a tour of The Batcave, Batman gasses Catwoman asleep and leaves a note for Alfred Pennyworth ordering him to deliver The Batantidote to Robin at Police HQ. Returning to Gotham, Batman and Catwoman meet the rest of the gang at The Mint. Using a hidden entrance detailed in The Catwoman's plans, they enter the building with plans to loot the whole safe! They blast their way into the vault with a silent explosive, where they are confronted by Robin, now restored to his faithful crimefighting old self again thanks to The Batantidote. The Dynamic Duo make mincemeat of The Catmen, but, just as the police arrive to collect the crooks, Catwoman steals Batman's keys and escapes in The Batmobile. Commandeering O'Hara's squad car, The Dynamic Duo give chase through The New Guernsey Bridge, but realize the impossibility of gaining The Batmobile's top speed, so they use The Batmobile's remote control to stop the car at a waterfront building. The Catwoman takes chase by Batman and climbs to the roof to avoid capture, but she is overcome by vertigo! Here she proposes marriage to The Caped Crusader, which he rejects only when she suggests killing Robin to make their lives together purrfect. Pretending to surrender, The Catwoman reaches out for Batman's hand and accidently slips, falls and disappears into the water below...but has she drowned?  On an urgent call from Commissioner Gordon, Bruce Wayne and Dick Grayson switch to Batman and Robin and rush to The Gotham Plaza Hotel; once there, they are surprised by a party being held in celebration of Batman and Robin's anniversary of their partnership with The Gotham City Police Department. During the presentation of a golden calf filled with $200,000 intended for charity, the party is interrupted by erupting clouds of green smoke and the sudden appearance of three emergency firemen who swipe the calf and escape through an open window. Before making his escape, one of the firemen reveals himself to be that crooked Count Of Conundrums himself, The Riddler, in disguise, who drops off one of his criminal clues, and then drops out to a safety net placed just outside! The Dynamic Duo attempt to give chase in The Batmobile, but lose the getaway truck in some Riddler-planned confusion. Following up on Riddler's clue, The Dynamic Duo analyze a crossword puzzle in The Gotham Herald newspaper. Believing they have solved the puzzle, and that it holds the key to The Riddler's next caper, they put through a call to Gordon by Batphone to alert him. However, Gordon informs them that the underground vault of The Gotham City Bank has been flooded. Realizing they have misread the clues, Batman and Robin track Riddler to the bank where he and his henchmen Across and Down are attempting to steal the cash. Armed with Batrespirators, The Duo give battle; during the fight, Riddler yanks off Robin's respirator and tosses it asunder, causing Batman to rush to his aid and give Riddler and his minions the distraction they need to split. The trio of supercrooks reconvene at their hideout at the soon-to-be-opened Norman Jigsaw Puzzle Factory, where they meet up with their moll, Anna Gram and to dry out the stolen money, for The Prince Of Puzzlers wants to collect $3 million in order to bargain for a horrifying weapon from Professor Avery Evans Charm: a pen-sized Demolecularizer. Meanwhile, Batman and Robin remember their appointment with The Gotham City's Bakers Guild to pose for lifesize marshmallow figurines, which will top a giant cake. Unknown to them, The Riddler, Across and Down have replaced the guild members! They lift The Caped Crusader and The Boy Wonder by forklift to the top of the 3-story cake; then, with a click of a switch by Riddler, Batman and Robin find themselves stuck as the cake directly under our heroes is made of 15 feet of lethal quicksand cleverly disguised as strawberry icing! Before leaving Riddler sings to the Dynamic Duo his version of a "happy" anniversary song! As The Dynamic Duo slowly sink to oblivion, The Riddler and his men depart to prepare his next criminal scheme.  The Clown Prince of Crime, the Joker is causing trouble again, this time spraying paint on priceless works of art, entering a competition and opening a school for millionaires. Batman and Robin are determined to find out what he is really up to and stop him.  As the future seems bleak for our beloved Boy Wonder, Bruce blocks the mechanical works of the mobile with himself and his chair, long enough for Robin to work himself loose and use one of the knives to deactivate the mechanism. Returning to see if the mobile has completed its diabolical duty, The Joker and his crooked cronies are jumped on by Bruce and the Boy Wonder. While they pin the henchmen to a wall with carefully thrown pallette knives, Joker begs for Baby Jane's forgiveness. Feeling sorry for him, Baby Jane arranges for his freedom, much to Bruce and Robin's astonishment. She then takes him back home with her, where, during a chicken dinner, Joker covers her priceless antique table with paint and has his henchmen chop it up. He convinces the gullible heiress that he has turned her table into a work of art, and she lets him replace the priceless Renaissance art collection in her father's wing at the museum with the table's painted remains. After snatching the collection, Joker puts through a call to Commissioner Gordon and demands $10 million for the paintings to be returned or he would burn the entire collection. However unknown to Joker, Batman replaced the stolen paintings with rather "childish" fingerpaintings by Alfred and when Joker removes the blankets from the paintings, he gets the shock of his life. Even more shocked by the sudden appearance of Batman and Robin, Joker retreats with Baby Jane, while his men take a good thrashing from the Dynamic Duo. Planning to revenge himself against Bruce Wayne and hoping to swipe some loot, Joker arrives at Wayne Manor, where he loses a duel with Alfred and runs into Bruce's study where he trips the switch to the Batpoles, hidden in the bust of William Shakespeare. Mistaking it for a secret passage, he slides down one of the poles. Thnking fast, Alfred activates the Emergency Batpole Elevator, sending the Clown Prince of Crime crashing to the top of the shaft. After a couple of trips up and down the pole, Joker finally gives up and is imprisoned while Baby Jane is safely returned home. Later, Alfred opens an exhibit of his "childish" paintings, with the proceeds donated to The Wayne Foundation Free Nursery.  The luxury liner Gotham Queen, carrying Professor Isaacson and the world renowned skating queen Glacia Glaze, encounters an iceburg, which is containts the hide out of and is controlled by Mr Freeze. Glacia Glaze it turns out to be Mr Freeze's accomplice. Mr Freeze kidnaps Professor Isaacson and demands that he reveal his secret formula for an instant ice ray, but the professor won't do so. Batman after using the batcomputer, deduces that Glacia Glaze is Mr. Freeze's accomplice. Mr Freeze moves his hideout to a location under the Bruce Wayne Ice Arena and then sends his homing seal to Police Headquarter with a note demanding that Bruce Wayne makes a televised broadcast at midnight saying that Mr. Freeze will be paid a ransom. Also, Batman and Robin will need to ready at midnight to act as intermediaries. Commisoner Gordon calls Batman while Chief Harah simiulationusly calls Bruce Wayne. Bruce Wayne arrives at the Ice Arena, with Aunt Harriet to attend the ice review featuring Glacia Glaze. Soon afterward, he receives a phone call from Dick Grayson, and after using an anti-eavesdrop batplug, is told that by Dick that he has brought the remote Batmobile phase advancer. Bruce then instructs him to remotely bring the Batmobile to the back alley behind Police Headquarters and to put their costumes in some rental lockers outside of Commissioner Gordon's office. Bruce Wayne and Dick Grason arrive at Police Headquarter and Bruce pretapes a telecast for Mr Freeze. Just after the two depart, Batman and Robin make their appearance and receive the briefcase full of dummy money for Mr. Freeze. Batman gives Commissioner Gordon a small echoing seal pulsator, which he says may help them later. As Batman has already deduced the whereabouts of Mr. Freeze he and Robin head there without waiting for Mr. Freeze's instructions. Batman and Robin arrive at Mr. Freeze lair just as he beginning to watch Bruce Wayne's telecast. Mr. Freeze attempt to use his freeze gun on the dynamic duo, but it proves to be useless as they are wearing their super thermalize bat skivies. and, Mr Freeze's henchmen subdo the caped crusaders and toss them in the vaporizing pipe pump cabinet.  When it seems that Batman & Robin are no more, bust still fears that he will be discovered, Freeze and crew returns to his iceberg. But The Dynamic Duo escape the terrible cabinet by an emergence exit, and, after waiting until The Frozen Fiend has departed, make their appearance via Isodle's sealhouse. Freeze, meanwhile, in his iceberg hideout has managed to syphen the formula from Professor Isaacson and builds the deadly Ice-Ray, intending to freeze all of Gotham City and the entire country! To prove his word, he ices down various parts of Gotham. At Batman's behest, Commissioner Gordon has a Small Echoing Seal Pulsator placed on Mr. Freeze's trained wonder-seal Isolde, and releases her into Gotham Harbor. Then, tracing the seal back to Mr. Freeze's hideout in The Batcopter, The Dynamic Duo rescue Prof. Isaacson. Freeze tries to render the heroes immobile with his Freeze Gun, but it proves to be no match for their Super-Thermalized Batskivvies! Following the ensuing Batfight, the Gotham authorities, also led straight to Freeze's glacier-hideout, arrive in time to round up the cold-hearted criminals before they can escape to sea in their Ice-Sub, and place them on ice - in jail. Later, Bruce, Dick, Aunt Harriet and Alfred relax by playing with racing cars.  The Dynamic Duo returns to the Batcave to revert to their mild-mannered roles of Bruce Wayne and Dick Grayson, in preparation of attending an opera this evening. As a planned surprise, Commissioner Gordon arranges a date between his daughter, Barbara Gordon, with Bruce Wayne. While arriving at her midtown apartment, after work from the Gotham City Library, Barbara is kidnapped by Oswald Cobblepot, the Penguin while she is in the lift by being hooked up by his umbrellas. Penguin sprays her to sleep with knockout gas while hoisting her above. Barbara kicks off both of her tan heels from her pantyhose feet during the struggle. Leaving them behind as a clue. The Penguin's henchmen bind and gag the sedated Barbara. Dragging her face down between them into the apartment next to hers, which is being redecorated. Commissioner Gordon, Chief O'Hara, Bruce and Dick all arrive at Barbara's apartment a few hours later, only to realize that Barbara is missing. As they try to find out what happened to Barbara, Penguin calls Barbara's line and speaks to Commissioner Gordon about the kidnapping. Bruce tells Penguin that he will pay any price as ransom, however Penguin's demands are not about money but marriage instead; his marriage to Barbara. As proof of the Penguin's intentions to marry Barbara, he puts a marriage announcement in the Gotham Times. Wayne tells Commissioner Gordon the reason for the Penguin's marriage is to gain immunity from prosecution because he would be the son-in-law of the police commissioner. He ungags Barbara and when she refuses his offer, he threatens to kill the commissioner if Barbara does not marry him, demonstrating this by having his henchmen fire at a cut-out of the Commissioner. Barbara reluctantly agrees to marry him. Bruce and Dick immediately change into Batman and Robin and head back to Police Headquarters. Meanwhile, two of Penguin's "henchmen" interrupt a meeting between Alfred and his minister, needing a clergyman to marry the Penguin and Barbara, and kidnap Alfred, believing him to be the minister after he says he is to protect the real minister. Alfred uses a distress tracking signal however, to alert Batman. As Alfred is dumped into a room where Barbara is be held, Barbara escapes through a window, warning Alfred not to reveal her true identity. Barbara heads back to her apartment where she changes into Batgirl, through a hidden room behind her bedroom. Batman and Robin follow Alfred into the Penguin's hideout, where they meet Batgirl who helps them defeat the thugs. But after she leaves Penguin gasses them with his umbrella, then places them (and Alfred) in purple sacks, and throws them onto a truck below with a sack he thinks contains Barbara. He takes them to a different location. The Penguin ties Batman and Robin up in the sacks and hangs them above a vat of hot acid. However, Batgirl follows the group on her Batgirlcycle and crashes the Penguin's party. Alfred frees Batman and Robin from the deathtrap, and they join Batgirl in defeating the Penguin and all five of his henchmen. Batgirl is angry at Alfred, claiming he faked being a Minister, but when he reveals why he did so she apologises. She tells Alfred not to reveal to anyone, not even Batman and Robin, that she is Barbara Gordon; he initially seems reluctant but then promises. Batgirl then disappears before Batman and Robin finally bag the Penguin and his henchmen. They open a bag and find Barbara inside. Alfred tells them Batgirl left a few minutes ago & The Dynamic Duo didn't expect the last of Batgirl, ending up questioning "Who is this Batgirl?". Afterwards Bruce provides a new car to Dick as a present for passing the road test and obtaining a driver's license. Meanwhile, Commissioner Gordon and O'Hara receive a threatening call from the Riddler, the villain appearing in the next week's episode. The episode concludes with Dick driving Bruce in his new car back to Wayne Manor, with Bruce reminding him, "Remember, this is not the Batmobile."  The Riddler attempts to take control of prize fighting in Gotham, kidnapping the current champ, Kid Gulliver, and brainwashing him into throwing his next fight. While Bruce, chairman of The Gotham City Boxing Commission, watches on TV, The Riddler robs receipts from The Gotham Square Garden box office, and leaves behind a blinking metal box, which puts the cashier in a state of shock! Examining the box, Batman finds it contains a Riddle about a long-buried temple in Southwestern Asia. Later, Riddler, dressed in a burnoose, appears on Betsy Boldface's TV show in the guise of Mushy Nebuchadnezzer, SW Asia's supposed boxing champion. Barbara suspects it's Riddler in disguise and switching to Batgirl, follows Betsey to Riddler's hideout at a little-used gymnasium, where Loreli Circe, The Siren, tries to put her under her spell. She is unsuccessful, since her powerful high note (2 octaves above high "C") works on men only! The Riddler then resorts to having Batgirl tied up and thrown into the steamroom, but she escapes through an airvent. Meanwhile, The Batman solves 2 more Riddles put through by Riddler over the phone--which is plugged into radio station GTZR--and accepts his challenge to a fight that night at The Garden. There at The Garden, Aunt Harriet, having returned from a trip, greets Commissioner Gordon and daughter Barbara in the audience. As the fight begins, The Caped Crusader has the advantage over The Prince Of Puzzlers, but this quickly changes when he is pelted with metal filings by The Riddler and is immobilized by a giant electromagnet hidden under the ring, activated by Betsey. While The Batman is pounded to a pulp by Riddler, Barbara, who bore witness in the audience, leaves to become Batgirl; she finds Betsey Boldface underneath the ring and shuts off the magnet, setting Batman free. The Riddler and his gang retreat hastily and dash back to their hideout, where they are immediately captured. Meanwhile, back at Police HQ, Loreli Circe, The Siren, is using her melodic charms on Commissioner Gordon...  The Nabob of the Nile returns to Tut-ness after being hit on the head with a brick during a love-in. "Retired," he sets himself up in a tent on 6th and Albert streets as a public crime predictor. After 3 crimes Tut predicts (and perpetrates!) are committed, Batman and Robin pay him a visit---without much success. Later, King Tut has his cronies rob the soccer stadium and deliberately let The Caped Crimebuster apprehend them, delaying him long enough for Tut to plant a homing device in The Batmobile! Discovering that The Batcave is under Wayne Manor, Tut calls the house and demands to speak to Batman, not Bruce Wayne! Bruce denies Tut's accusing him of being Batman, so the doubtful monarch demands to back up his claim by appearing in public with The Caped Crusader simultaneously, or he will blow his cover. Later, Bruce programs The Batmobile to drive by itself and employs the use of a dummy Batman and the art of ventriloquism to confront the nefarious nabob. Thinking he has failed in his plan, Tut practically falls to pieces; he apparently recovers and predicts a raid to free Gotham City's archcriminals, luring The GC Police to the prion. Meanwhile, Tut snatches priceless Egyptian scrolls which will eventually lead him to the statue of a god, rumoured to give its possessor power to control the world! Becoming aware of the danger of the scrolls, Barbara Gordon switches to Batgirl and speeds by Batgirlcycle to The Gotham City Library--too late! She tracks the obese monarch to his hideout, where she is knocked unconscious by Tut's new queen, Shirley, and captured. The Dynamic Duo follows Batgirl's trail at the library to Tut's hideout, where, with a resuscitated Batgirl, thrash Tut and his Tut-lings. Later, Gotham City is shocked by the arrival of Louie The Lilac...  Commissioner Gordon plans a peaceful ‘Flower-In’ at Gotham City Park, only to learn that there are no flowers available anywhere. Meanwhile, the licentious Louie the Lilac devises a plot to take over the minds of Gotham City's flower children; using his hypnotic Lilac Spray he abducts Princess Primrose from the florally-challenged flower-in, causing the furious flower children to begin a demonstration outside City Hall. Louie’s scheme relies on the knowledge that Primrose is actually Thelma Jones, an old school friend of Barbara Gordon, which ensures that Batman and Robin get to hear of the kidnapping and while Batman and Robin talk to Barbara, Louie plants a card for Lila's Lilac Shop in the Batmobile. Having found the clue, the Dynamic Duo head for the flower shop, but Louis overpowers them using poisonous lilacs and then ties them to a trellis in his hothouse, leaving them at the mercy of deadly man-eating lilac plants... 